Chapter 1   (En Ze & Ehren)

Citizenship: a position given by the government to which in turn owes allegiance 
Citizenship shaped by Legal Status: One has certain responsibilities such as 
protecting the country and observing the laws of the country.
Rights: the basic rights normally regarded as arising from citizenship are the right to a passport, the right to leave and return to the country/ies of citizenship, the right to live in that country, and to work there. As a citizen of the country, one has certain rights such as freedom to practise one’s religion and access to public education.
Responsibilities:having responsibilities to fulfil because of the connection to other members in the community or society as well as obeying the laws of the land and not to discriminate against people of different ethnic groups.

Citizenship shaped by identity and participation: for example,national service in Singapore.This is where men at the age of 18 are needed to participate in the military to serve the nation. Through this, they feel a sense of belonging and loyalty to their country.
 









Chapter 2: How do we decide what’s good for society? (Ling Fang)
What are the challenges in deciding what is good for society?
Differing needs and interests
P: A society can agree that certain basic needs for food,clothing,shelter and personal security are necessary for a person. However, a diverse society may not be able to agree on common interests and what is important for a happy or fulfilling life. 
Eg: For example, an efficient public transportation system would be an important priority for those without their own mode of transport.However,those with their own mode of transport may be more concerned about an efficient road network to ensure that they are able to reach their destination quickly and efficiently. 
Exp: Given that society only has limited resources,it would be impossible for everyone’s needs and interests to be met fully. As such, decisions on how the resources should be used need to be made. 
Differing priorities
P:There could also be disagreements on priorities
Eg: For example,the citizens of a country may agree that it is important for the country to provide affordable healthcare, a good education and a clean environment. However, the citizens may disagree on which area the government should prioritise. Parents with school-going children would likely want more resources to be invested in education.On the other hand, the elderly would likely prefer more resources to keep healthcare affordable to meet their medical needs. 
Exp:These difference could be due to what they perceive as important for them to lead happy and fulfilling lives in Singapore 

Unequal sharing of costs
P:When a decision is made, some individuals or groups will bear greater costs than others.
Eg:For example,in building an efficient transportation system for the country, it is necessary to build expressways for smooth traffic flow.
Exp:While society will generally benefit, residents living near the expressways may be affected by the noise generated from the traffic. 






Trade-offs
P: The Singapore government has to consider our limited resources when making decisions on developing Singapore.
Eg:For example,if the government chooses to develop a piece of land for housing it would not be able to use the same piece of land to build a school
Exp: In 2014, the government had to make a decision to acquire land previously used for other purposes such as,residential and commercial to build the Thomsan-East Coast Line. When fully operational in 2024,the new MRT line is expected to serve about 500000 commuters daily in the initial years rising to one million commuters daily in the longer term. However, by making this decision, the trade-off was that this piece of land could no longer be used for recreation or industry in the future.
Link: Thus, the government needs to balance the cost of trade offs with what it chooses to spend its resources on.


Not In My Backyard (NIMBY)
P: Residents living near such public facilities believe that developments are needed but they also believe that these facilities should be built further away from their homes,so that they do not have to bear the inconvenience associated with them.
Eg: In 2012, residents in Toh Yi were unhappy with the idea of studio apartments for the elderly being built in their estate. Plans were for the apartments to be built where the area's main recreational facilities - a basketball court, jogging track and community garden.
Ela: Residents were concerned that these facilities would be taken away from them. Some also questioned if the site was suitable for building apartments for the elderly because of the slopes.
Link: Thus, some residents continued to disagree with the proposal as they were uncomfortable with having apartments meant for the elderly near them

Legislature
P: The Legislature consists of the President and Parliament. Its main responsibility is to pass laws for Singapore. Parliament is made up of elected, non-constituency and nominated Members of the Parliament(MP).
Eg:
Judiciary


Ideas shaping governance


Having good leadership
P: Given the complex nature of decision making, leaders must have the moral courage and integrity to do what is right, including making decisions that may not be popular with the people. 
Eg & Elaboration: For example, Mr Liu Thai Ker,the former chairman of the National Arts Council. Under his leadership, local talents had more opportunities to take part in international co-productions and collaborations.Events like Singapore Art Festival were organised for better appreciation of arts in Singapore. 
Exp:Leaders of good moral character and who are incorruptible can win the confidence and respect of people.

Anticipating change and staying relevant
P:When citizens' needs and interests are adversely affected in the short term due to a decision based on more long term considerations,tension may arise. The government needs to manage these tensions and remain forward looking.They need to make decisions that will benefit the people of Singapore in future. 
Eg & Elaboration:One example in managing tensions can be seen in the example of the Integrated Resorts. In 2005, the government decided to build 2 IRs at Marina Bay and Sentosa. Debates about the IRs continue because the tensions between the economic benefits and social costs are difficult to resolve.
Exp: The government tried to anticipate change and stay relevant,especially in seeking potential economic benefits,such as job opportunities and higher tourism spending.The government was aware of the social consequences in terms of concerns about higher gambking rates and took measures to lessen the potential impact of people gambling 

OR

Point: Anticipating change and staying relevant helps to ensure Singapore’s progress.
Elaboration & Example: It is one of the principles of governance in Singapore. In particular, it means that the government needs to be forward-looking and manage any tensions that may arise due to citizens’ needs and interests being adversely affected in the short term due to a decision based on more long term considerations. One example of this principle in action is in the decision to develop NEWater. Singapore had two water agreements with Malaysia, one which expired in 2011, and the other expiring in 2061. Singapore did not wish to renew the 2011 water agreement as the government wanted Singapore to be self-reliant in terms of water resources. Foreseeing a water shortage once the agreement ends, the government introduced NEWater, which was processed sewage water. It has helped to reduce dependency on Malaysia for water, and is now one of Singapore’s Four National Taps. When people raised concerns about the hygiene of NEWater, the government assured them that it was safe for drinking by using various channels such as schools, newspapers, and the Internet. From this, we can see that the government had anticipated the potential problem of water shortage and introduced the solution of NEWater, before going one step further to manage tensions by addressing the people’s concerns. 
Explanation & Link: By anticipating change and staying relevant, the Singapore government is able to determine what problems Singapore faces in the future, and take the necessary steps to solve them before they can hamper Singapore’s continued growth.


Providing a stake for everyone
P: Allowing citizens to have a say in decision-making can develop a greater sense of belonging in citizens.They will feel that they have a stake in Singapore’s future and be more willing to be involved in working towards the good of society. More opportunities have been created to encourage Singaporeans to share their views about policies and decision-making.
Eg & Elaboration:For example, Our Singapore Conversation,where Singaporeans share their views,hopes and dreams about Singapore.
Exp: Thus, Singaporeans can have more opportunities to share their views and in a sense create a greater sense of belonging when they hear their views being heard.

Practising meritocracy
Point: Practising meritocracy is one of the principles of governance in Singapore. Elaboration & Example: Meritocracy refers to a system that distributes opportunities to enable future successes, where people are rewarded according to the effort they put in rather than factors such as their race, religion, or socio-economic background. When people are rewarded based on their abilities and effort, they are encouraged to work hard. An example of this is the Edusave Scholarship and Merit Bursary Scheme, which respectively reward the top 10% and 25% of school students with a sum of money for their good performance in school. In particular, the Merit Bursary Scheme is only awarded to those who have financial difficulties, ensuring that they are not hampered by financial circumstances. 
Explanation & Link: By practising meritocracy, there is a fair system in Singapore so that people know that effort is rewarded. This will encourage Singaporeans to work harder and contribute to Singapore, therefore ensuring Singapore’s continued progress.

Chapter 3: (Kenneth & Jerald) 
Role of Government in working for the good of society
(Pg 69-81) Role of Government in Society: 
Maintain internal order within Singapore: to protect citizens, property and whatever the society believes should be protected. 
E.g. Immigrations and Checkpoint Authority (ICA
Elab: to prevent smuggling and illegal entry of goods and people into Singapore. They maintain Singapore’s borders, making sure all entries of people and goods will not cause harm to Singapore. 
Exp: The Singapore government maintains order within Singapore by ensuring that all citizens are physically endangered and maintaining the peace in Singapore.

Maintain external order
Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA)
Elab: is to ensure that diplomatic relations with other countries remain strong by developing political and economic ties with other countries. 
Exp: The Singapore government thus protects Singapore from external threats by making sure that there are no countries that will become our enemies and threaten us. There will not be any aggressors targeting Singapore, keeping Singapore safe.
 
Ensuring Justice
Judiciary 
Elab: The family justice court  provides guidelines on what is defined as family violence, who can apply for a Personal Protection Order, how to apply as well as the action that can be taken by the courts.
Exp: If the applicant receives the PPO, the court can take action such as to prevent or restrict a person from entering the applicant’s house or part of the house.


Providing goods and services for the public
NEWater
Elab: To provide alternative sources of water, Singapore embarked on NEWater and desalinated water projects, NEWater is produced by reclaiming water that has been used. 
Exp: Singapore aims for NEWater to meet up to 55 percent of the country’s future water demand and desalinated water to meet up to 25 percent of the country’s water demand by 2060.


Safeguarding the interests of citizens
CPF LIFE
Elab:From 60 years old in the 1950s to 82 years old in 2015, life expectancy has increased tremendously and is still rising. In fact, a third of Singaporeans aged 65 today are expected to live beyond 90. This means that Singaporeans have to save more to last them through a longer retirement or they may end up outliving their savings. 
Exp: CPF LIFE was introduced in 2009 to provide Singaporeans with a lifelong monthly payout in retirement to give them greater peace in mind in retirement. The level of payout is based on the amount of CPF savings they have accumulated from the moment they started working, primarily through the CPF Special Account as well as the choice of CPF life plans. Besides personal contributions , employers also contribute to retirement savings. Together with the risk-free interest paid by the government, CPF helps Singaporeans to stretch their retirement savings for as long as they live.



Role of Citizens in working for the good of society
(Pg 82-97) )Role of Citizens/Individuals in Society (Jernice’s):
Point: Individuals are able to work for the good of society. 
E.g & Elab: Some individuals decided to give out masks to the elderly and the needy when Singapore was dealing with hazardous haze conditions. They did it of their own accord, and paid for the masks themselves. They had chosen to do so because they worried that the elderly and the needy may not have access to these masks, and they were also more susceptible to the harmful effects of the haze. 
Exp: Individuals are able to work for the good of society because they can tackle and act on real and immediate problems in society. In some cases, they can even inspire others to do as they do, and therefore the positive effect for society will continue to spread.
Point: Organised groups are able to work for the good of society. 
E.g & Elab: Singapore Nature Society has been playing an active role in submitting reports to Parliament to inform them of the impacts of their proposed policies. This was most clearly seen when the Cross-island Line was proposed and had plans to go through the Central Catchment Nature Reserve. Singapore Nature Society submitted a report on the negative impacts of such a move, and the Land Transport Authority thus modified their plans to minimise the negative impacts of the proposed train line. 

Exp: Such organised groups can work for the good of society because they are able to fight for a specific cause, and are able to commit to the cause for a longer period. In addition, they often have expertise in dealing with their specific causes, and thus are able to influence government decisions as well, hence better helping to impact citizens in Singapore. 

Point: Individuals are able to influence government decisions.
E.g. and Elaboration:
Explanation and link: 

Point: Organised groups are able to influence government decisions.
E.g. and Elaboration:
Explanation and link:

Point: Government and strengthen Singaporeans sense of belonging.
E.g. and Elaboration:
Explanation and link


Potential Essay Questions:
Explain how the government of Singapore maintains order within Singapore and protects Singapore from external threats. [8]
Explain how individuals and organised groups in Singapore work for the good of society. [8]
Chapter 4 (Min Jun’s) :) 
Identity: comes from how u define yourself and how others define u. It can be expressed through clothing, actions etc. our identities vary and are very complex as they are shaped by various influences of society. As we gain new experiences through interaction, this will mean that our identities will evolve over time. 
Nationality: the status of belonging to a particular nation e.g if ur born in  SG, ur nationality is Singaporean. If ur born in Japan, ur nationality is Japanese.
Race refers to the classification of people according to physical characteristics that are biological in nature. E.g of physical characteristics that define a person’s race are : 
Colour of skin 
Hair 
Eyes 
Bone structure 
Jaw structure  
Ethnicity : refers to one’s ancestry, cultural practices, languages, customs, food and dressing that are associated with an ethnic groups. One’s ethnicity can be associated with a set of practices and customs unique to a particular country or region. 
The relationship between races and ethnicity may not always be clear and can be complex at times. Ethnicity can differ within the same racial group. For example, members of the Miao and Hui communitie in China may be physical features of the Chinese race, but they are of a different ethnicity, with unique costumes, practices and customs.
Religion: it is an organised collection of attitudes, beliefs, practices, world views and often, worship of a single or multiple gods. The religion that individuals believe in may be determined by  birth or by choice. Most religions embody a set of shared core beliefs and practices. Believes keep to these beliefs and practices regardless of their nationality and ethnicity. These beliefs and practices would then shape the way we interact with others, the choices we make and our thinking. Religions thus play an important role in shaping our identity as they influence our way of life in many ways.  Examples of religion : buddhism, christianity, islam etc 
Socio-economic Status: 

Chapter 5 
(Pg 134-143) (Seng Hong)
Diversity:
Point: Singapore’s immigration policy led to greater diversity in Singapore now.
E.g. and Elaboration: Professionals such as doctors found it easier to work overseas in Australia, as they could speak English. Hence, the government of Singapore started to encourage another wave of immigration.
Explanation and link: These migrants and immigrants bring a diversity of culture, practices and customs from their countries. Because of the low birth rate and ageing population in Singapore will lead to a shrinking customer base and companies may find Singapore to be unattractive to sell their products to. These companies may not be able to find adequate manpower. Foreign manpower from the policy helps to mitigate this effect.


Point: Economic opportunities in Singapore led to greater diversity in Singapore now.
E.g. and Elaboration: In Singapore, employment opportunities are readily available due to the stable political environment and growth potential. This causes the ease of doing business requiring more manpower. It also attracts multinational companies (MNCs). Foreign manpower is needed to complement the local workforce in sectors such as construction and maritime. Many of these foreign workers come from ASEAN nations as well as India, Bangladesh and China. 
Explanation and link: Foreign domestic workers help to support families with elderly and children. Having domestic workers to assist with care-giving will allow Singaporeans who are playing the role of primary caregiver at home to re-enter or remain in the workforce. Through the interaction of the worker and the community has led to greater diversity in Singapore. 
(Pg 144-154) (Ateeqah’s)
Point: Socio-cultural environment in Singapore led to greater diversity in Singapore now.
E.g. and Elaboration: Provide 3 different examples (i) Community support (ii) Safe environment (iii) Singapore’s education system
Explanation and link:
>Community support
(Point 1)Singapore consists of different ethnicities and cultures from all over the world, allowing foreigners to feel more comfortable at home.These communities usually gather in certain places.
(Example)For instance, the Thai community meet at Golden Mile Complex along beach road, dubbed remittance centres where Thai nationals can send money to their families back from.
(Explanation)That area has a large Thai supermarket and several smaller convenience stalls selling Thai daily supplies,produce and product.Immigrant communities bring with them their national identities, including ethnic practices from their country origin.
(Link)Thus, when there are more foreigners and their community groups in Singapore, they can influence and add on to the diversity of cuisines, language culture and beliefs present in Singapore. 

>Safe environment
(Point 2)Migrants and immigrants consider safety and security when deciding a country to live in.
(Example) Some factors that attract immigrants to stay in Singapore are, the strong security, low crime rates , absence of corruption, strong rule of law and most importantly, promotes,”Peace and Prosperity”.Also, in 2014, Singapore was ranked the second safest country in the world based on social order and security and is ranked tenth overall like criminal justice and absence of corruption.
(Explanation/Link)These factors attracts immigrants  to live in Singapore as it is a safe environment with low crime rates which does not endanger their safety.

>Singapore’s education system
(Point 3)Many migrants come to Singapore for quality education either for themselves or for their children.
(Explanation)Singapore’s education system is well-recognised and admired for its effectiveness and high standards.Many primary schools,secondary schools and junior colleges accept international students.
(Example)Schools in Singapore also offer high standards of certification and a wide range of courses for instance, ‘Health’ or ‘Engineering’, related courses to students. 
(Link)These variety of  options made Singapore well-known for its quality education.When more foreign students study in Singapore,they are able to share their experiences and learning with their fellow students and this adds to the diversity in schools.

Chapter 6 
(Pg 156-167) (Andrea)

Interactions in a diverse society (Socio-cultural diversity)
-Maintain harmonious interactions 
-harmony in society - in order to strengthen the bond.
(agreements in: willingness to live together, opinions and feelings) 
                       -Etc: 
                        Religious leaders of different faiths gather at the refurbished harmony       centre
                        - Common spaces help provide opportunities for different people who come together to share common interests and experiences. 
Etc: 
                        - OnePeople.sg – Organises programs which fosters interactions and friendships among different ethnic communities.
                         - People’s association( PAP) – They assist in offering a wide range of community programs for Singaporeans from all walks of life.
                       
                         
Exchange and appreciation in a diverse society 
Ensures rich exchanges in between groups of people

- exchange in appreciation of culture 
-Provides people with many opportunities to interact and learn from those who hail from different countries and cultures – which can result in fusion between local cultures and foreign ideas.
Etc: food, music, ashion
Food: beef short ribs with rendang, laksa pesto linguine.
Music: The tan brothers – performs music which represents a fusion of cultures
Fashion: Priscilla Shunmugam and Hayden ng — fashion designers who created fashion wear inspired by cross-cultural influences .

Point: The exchange of culture in a diverse society like Singapore can result in benefit like an increase in understanding and appreciation among different groups thus fostering social harmony.  
Elaboration & Example: With interaction with foreign talents can lead to a fusion between different local cultures and foreign ideas. This fusion can result in interesting outcomes, as seen in areas such as food, music and fashion.  For example, food is one prominent area that shows fusion of culture. One chef who specializes in fusion food is Chef Willin Low. He has created fusion between Singaporean and modern European dining like soft shell chili crab squid ink mantou and char siew burger. His approach to fusion includes awards from the New York Times and Financial Times. This example highlights how an individual can benefit from an attitude of openness when interacting with migrants and immigrants. 
Explanation & Link: Hence, the exchange of culture is beneficial as it provides many opportunities for us to engage in meaningful and enriching exchanges. Deeper understanding and appreciation among different groups and promotes a harmonious society in Singapore.

Point: The exchanges in knowledge and skills with foreign talents can benefit Singapore in the areas of research and development. 
Elaboration & Example: Foreign scientists can share their knowledge and expertise to help strengthen research competencies and collaborations with Singaporeans.  For example, the Biomedical Research Council (BMRC) of the Agency for Science, Technology and Research (A*STAR) funds and supports public research initiatives in Singapore. Under BMRC, internationally renowned scientists with the expertise and knowledge to jump-start the country’s biomedical sciences moved to Singapore.  Dr Sydney Brenner was a distinguished 2002 Nobel prize winner who helped to start the Molecular Engineering Lab in Singapore in 2009.  
Explanation & Link: Hence, the exchanges in knowledge and skills is beneficial to Singapore as it leads to the openness to learn and collaborate with overseas scientists has led to robust research, which in turn has led to significant discoveries made in Singapore. This collaboration helps locals become more productive and creative as they are exposed to new ideas.  


(Pg 168-174) (Sherlyn) 
Stereotypes
> Stereotypes are beliefs held by one social group about another social group.

People often jump into conclusions about others and make incorrect judgments due to insufficient understanding and erroneous assumptions which may lead to discrimation against victims, who are either hurt or excluded from the interactions in the diverse society. ( example , religious and racial )  

For example, the Arabs and Muslim-Americians became victims of hate crimes in America after the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Many Arabs and Muslim Americians were stopped for questioning by public officers because of their appearance or muslim names. 

This instance have caused unnecessary hurt to people of a different race or religion and would harm relationships in our multi-ethnic and multi religious society

Prejudice and misconceptions 
>  Prejustice can arise from misconceptions linked to nationality, race and ethnicity,religion or socio-economic status.

This can take the form of hurtful remarks made from people and has the effect of causing misunderstandings.

For example, in 2010, a pastor of a large  christian church was questioned by the internal security department(isd) for contentious remarks about buddhism made in a video of a sermon. It spread quickly and created a huge uproar on the internet. Despite a public apology made specifically to Buddhist leaders, inter-religious harmony in multicultural Singapore was shaken by the incident.


Discrimination
> the unjust or prejudicial treatment of different categories of people, especially on the grounds of race, age, sex, or disability.

Example: A Chinese man confronted an interracial couple and commented that its a disgrace for a Chinese and an Indian to be together. 


(Pg 175-192) (lengluis) Socio-economic diversity
Competition for resources
(i) Concerns over standard of living
Singaporeans are concern over the impact of the inflow of foreigners on competition in employment, prices of goods and services and demands on public transport
Increasing number of foreigners in the workforce , singaporeans fear that foreigner are taking jobs away
Singaporeans hold the concern that foreigners are the reason why some of the older white-collar singaporean workers 
Employers would rather hire foreigners than pay more for local worker because of the lower pay earned such as construction workers 
Inflow of work permit are the reason why low SES singaporeans remain in the lower income group 
With these concerns , the government has tightened the immigration framework and put in place more strict foreign workforce to reduce the inflow of foreign manpower into Singapore .for example , work permit holders has been increasing since 2010
Point: Foreign manpower brings challenges to Singapore.
Elaboration and Example: 
E.g.: Competition for jobs – loss of jobs, lowering of wages, lead to people leaving SG
E.g.: Prejudice – anti-foreigner sentiments
Explanation & Link: Thus, foreign manpower brings challenge because locals feel threatened by foreigners in terms of jobs → ill-feelings between the two groups → disharmony in society.

(ii) Concerns over social mobility
> movement of individuals between different socio-economic status

Singaporean thoughts: 
> Income gaps between the lower and higher income groups have increased over the years which led to many Singaporeans feeling that social mobility is limited
Example: 
> lower income groups working in the manufacturing sector were affected by the shifting of jobs to regions which offer lower labour costs. This loss of jobs affected their ability to progress up the socio-economic ladder. 

Government effort in planning: 
> the Singapore government emphasises re-training and the learning of new skills to enable Singaporeans of a lower income group to stay relevant to economic demands. 
> upholding the principle of meritocracy, where one is rewarded based on merit, regardless of race, language and religion or socio-economic status. 

^^ With the effort that the government has put in, it has been one of the main guiding principles which has contributed to the success of Singapore today. 

2019 N Level Qn: 
Explain how foreign manpower brings benefits and challenges to Singapore.
Chapter 7
(Pg 194-218) (AhLians)

Assimilation
● Assimilation​ is a policy in which immigrants are expected to adopt the beliefs and practices of the majority group in the host
country, which over time makes the identity of the immigrants indistinguishable from the majority group.
● In France, secularism is present in all areas of the state and no one religion is to be favoured over the other and so immigrants are
expected to follow this belief.
● For instance, there are various examples of policies (Naturalisation processes) which promote assimilation in France.
○ Education in France is secular and attempts to strengthen the French national identity.
■ There is no discussion of religion except in History and Philosophy classes.
■ Adaptation classes are conducted for children of immigrants to help improve their French and eventually join
regular French schools which will help serve their assimilation into French society.

● Benefits of assimilation
○ Benefits of this method is that it ensures a homogenous population and thus leads to greater social cohesion as all French
nationals will have a common culture and language.
○ Assimilation of minority groups into French society also helps to strengthen French national identity rather than dilute it.
● Disadvantages of assimilation
○ Tensions may arise as a result of the practising of assimilation policies.
■ They usually arise from the dilemma of maintaining the influence of national identity and at the same time
recognising the impact of religion and identity and respecting the rights of individuals to practise their religion.
■ An example of tensions arising from the French policy of secularism is the French face veil ban instituted in 2011
which prevented French muslim women from wearing their religious face veils. Many demonstrations broke out in
French cities, particularly Paris as a result.

Integration in Singapore
● Integration ​as a policy refers to a approach where immigrants retain their unique identities while forging common ground with the
groups already living in the host country.
● For instance, there are various examples of policies which promote integration in Singapore.
○ Naturalisation initiatives like the Singapore Citizenship e-Journey
■ This is an online journey that allows new citizens to learn more about SIngapore at their own pace and
convenience, including information of our history and development of our society.
■ This helps them better understand how to fit into Singapore.

○ Common experiences with locals can help immigrants adapt to being part of Singaporean society like National Service
■ Second-generation PRs are expected to dedicate 2 years of their lives to serving the nation despite not being
native to Singapore.
■ This thus encourages them to mix with people from diverse religious and cultural backgrounds and to put collective interest over oneself.
Increase their sense of belonging

● Benefits of integration
○ It promotes cross-culturalism and allows immigrants to retain their unique identity while complementing Singapore’s
national identity, this reduces tensions in the short-term and better enables first-generation immigrants to fit in.
○ It also stimulates a vibrant economy because it encourages the mixing of ideas, refining Singapore’s edge as a
knowledge-based economy.
● Disadvantages of integration
○ Tensions that ; arise is that due to the policy of integration may not be fully effective at integrating some groups of
people.
■ Some of these people may not be as conducive of integration into local society and may instead form small
cliques where they congregate. This may thus lead to cultural clashes between them and locals.
○ This increased diversity may also lead to cultural clashes such as in the case of the Curry Incident in 2011 where one
Chinese immigrant family launched a complaint against their Indian neighbours cooking of curry, sparking mass online
debate.


(Pg 219-249) (Zeecken’s)
– management and impact of socio-economic diversity 
○ market-based approach 
In usa, Individuals can decide what healthcare services they need and at what price
Not all Americans can afford medical insurance, or are automatically covered


○ shared responsibility approach 
Eg. in sg, Individuals are encouraged to take ownership of their own health Subsidies are funded by government revenue and taxes, with little burden on citizens


○ government-financed approach
In Sweden Affordable healthcare for all Swedes because everyone is subsidised

Sample question: Explain how shared responsibility approach and government-financed approach ensure healthcare remains affordable to all their citizens.                                     
Point: In the shared responsibility approach, the government provides basic healthcare services and shares the cost of some aspects of healthcare. Healthcare costs are kept affordable through heavy government subsidies, together with individual and family responsibility.
Elaboration & Example: Provision of subsidies is tiered to ensure that the lower income groups receive more support. New schemes have also been introduced to help mitigate rising healthcare costs for the elderly and lower income groups. (Eg) Medisave, MediShield Life and MediFund are part of this framework to cover every Singaporean. On top of that, individuals also play their part in paying for their own healthcare to ensure they get the level of care they need. They buy insurance and have savings in their Medisave account for such rainy days. 
Explanation & Link: Through this method of shared responsibility, Singaporeans are able to afford healthcare as the costs are already lowered and they have personal savings and plans for their rainy day. For those who are unable to pay for healthcare still, the government does have the Medifund as a pool of money to help with the lower SES.

Point: In the government-financed approach, it is a comprehensive assistance, including substantial government-financed support. Sweden provides universal access to healthcare for its people for free. 
Elaboration & Example: This means that every Swede has equal access to healthcare services regardless of social class, income or place of residence. The Swedish healthcare system is publicly governed and owned.  Both public and private providers are financed largely from public funds. The people pay a nominal sum of money for healthcare services as part of co-payment. For eg, patients above 20 years are charged '9 per day for hospitalisation. 
Explanation & Link: This ensures access to healthcare for all socio-economic status groups, especially the lower income groups since they do not have to pay very much for any type of healthcare they need. Although the people have to pay high taxes in return, it still ensures healthcare remains affordable for all citizens, from cradle to grave.

                                      
Sample question: Explain how personal responsibility and government intervention ensure affordable health care in Singapore’s shared responsibility system?                                
Point & Elaboration: The government intervenes to keep healthcare affordable by heavily subsidising healthcare costs in government hospitals, polyclinics, community hospitals and nursing homes. In this sense, Singaporeans then have to manage the remaining costs themselves. The poor can have access to additional subsidies after means testing is carried out under the CHAS scheme. 
Explanation & Link: Without this government intervention, healthcare costs will be driven up by market forces and this will make healthcare inaccessible to many Singaporeans. Government intervention to subsidise healthcare across the board benefits all Singaporeans as it keeps healthcare within reach despite market forces.

Point & Elaboration: Personal responsibility lies in every Singaporean maintaining their Medisave accounts at its optimal level. This means that they should maintain bodily health through lifestyle practices so that they do not have to draw from Medisave unless it is really necessary. Small medical payments should be paid for in cash or by private insurance to save the Medisave account for more serious and unforeseen illness in the future. In addition, all Singaporeans have Medishield Life as an insurance coverage. They can exercise personal responsibility by topping up the coverage given. This will depend on the person’s individual financial capability. 
Explanation & Link: By doing these, Singaporeans will ensure that no matter what happens, they and their families have enough savings and insurance to cover even critical illnesses.

Sample question: Explain how personal responsibility and government intervention ensure affordable health care? 
Point: Personal responsibility helps to ensure affordable healthcare. 
Elaboration & Example: In the United States, individuals are responsible for buying their own health insurance, as the government does not make it compulsory, and not all companies provide health insurance for their employees. They also have the choice of where to seek their medical services, be it public hospitals or private clinics, based on what they can afford. 
Explanation & Link: Personal responsibility ensures that individuals have the freedom to decide for themselves what is affordable for them. They are not pressured to pay what they cannot afford, and instead decide whether the amount and the type of healthcare is indeed what they need at that point in time. With this freedom of choice to spend within their own means, they thus have affordable healthcare.

Point: Government intervention helps to ensure affordable healthcare. 
Elaboration & Example: In Singapore, the government mandates that all Singaporeans and Permanent Residents who earn above $1100 have to contribute part of their salary to Medisave, which can then be used to pay for their healthcare bills when necessary. The government also subsidies healthcare costs for hospital stays, depending on the ward classification. 
Explanation & Link: Government intervention ensures that those who would otherwise be unable to afford basic healthcare are able to do so. It is able to ensure that all its citizens have access to basic healthcare, and are not forced to die due to an inability to afford the necessary healthcare.



Key words for Issue 3: 
• Globalisation 
the process by which businesses or other organizations develop international influence or start operating on an international scale.
• Interconnections 
a mutual connection between two or more things.
• Interdependence 
• Trade-offs
Chapter 8 (Damien neoh]
Driving forces of globalisation 
developments in transportation 
Improvements in transportation - larger cargo ships mean that the cost of transporting goods between countries has decreased. Economies of scale mean the cost per item can reduce when operating on a larger scale. Transport improvements also mean that goods and people can travel more quickly.
P: Improvements in technology drives globalisation. 
Example & Elaboration: For example, today, the Internet as well as the advancements in the mobile communication technology have made it faster for people to communicate across the globe. People can send emails at the click of a button. With today’s advanced smart phones and their accompanying applications, or apps, people can communicate and conduct business easily. People are also able to communicate and conduct meetings through messaging and video calls, as well as gain access to a vast amount of information on the Internet.  
Explanation & Link: Due to such improvements in technology, it facilitate the communication and exchange of information across the world, which allow for greater collaboration between people, companies and countries across the world.  All these would contribute towards the interconnectedness and these interconnections can create interdependence between people and countries as they work together, thus driving globalisation.

growth of Multinational Corporations (MNCs)
In the process of globalisation, MNCs play a significant role. Also, after being miles away, they interact with the local and small producers directly, thereby combining the markets. Their job leads to investments and goods being traded that contribute to interconnections between different nations.


Multinational corporations are responsible for a huge slice of global employment, investment, and research. To some, they are malevolent monopolizers that exploit labour and avoid taxes. To others, they are engines of innovation and efficiency, contributing to global prosperity.

Point: The growth of MNCs has helped to drive globalisation in the 21st century. 
Elaboration & Example: One example of such an MNC is Starbucks. Starbucks depends on producers of coffee beans from countries in Africa and Asia, while the suppliers of paper for its cups come from parts of Europe. Starbucks’ consumers are all over the world, with 6000 stalls worldwide. The link between consumers, producers, and suppliers is truly global. 
Explanation & Link: Thanks to MNCs, there is greater connection between countries due to the need to communicate business decisions up and down the line of producers, suppliers, and consumers. This results in greater interdependence amongst the countries in order for continue economic success, thereby driving globalisation.

technological advancements 
Improved air and sea transportation has greatly accelerated the worldwide flow of people and goods. All this has both created and mandated greater interdependence among firms and nations. The rapid rate of innovation and the dynamics of technology flows mean that comparative advantage is short-lived.
Point: Developments in transportation have helped to drive globalisation in the 21st century. 
Elaboration & Example: Ships and planes transporting goods are becoming commonplace, with newer ships and planes with greater carrying capacity and faster speeds being developed every year. This means that goods and people are able to travel from one place to another more quickly and at a lower cost. 
Explanation & Link: With these developments in transportation, people are more likely to travel or conduct trade between countries. This thus builds more connections between the different countries, and the economic benefits that arrive along with the connections will promote greater interdependence, therefore driving globalisation.


2021 N Level Essay Qn: 7 
Explain how the growth of MNCs and developments in transportation drive globalisation in the 21st century.  [8]



Chapter 9 (fangmin)
Economic impact on countries, companies and individuals 
– economic growth and downturn for countries
– higher profits/ market share and lower profits/ market share for companies 
– higher income/ greater employment opportunities and loss of income and employment for individuals 

– responses to economic impacts 
○ cooperation and competition among countries 
Due to globalisation, companies are able to benefit from higher profits and larger market share, leading to an increased competition among companies trying to expand their market reach and profits.
One way to obtain higher profits is by expanding operations overseas. This allows access to new markets abroad, lower labour costs, cheaper resources and production costs.  
An example is PepsiCo, an American MNC, which has been dominating the global companies because of opportunities arising from the global economy.
○ innovation and adaptation by companies 
For companies to remain successful, it needs to constantly innovate and reinvent itself or risk losing its share of the market or profits. 
One way is to constantly introduce new features into its products and services. All businesses must always anticipate how a market might change and ensure that their products and services remain relevant.
An example is Xiaomi, a smartphone maker, which has managed to capture 4.4% of the world’s smartphone market share within four years. 
○ acquisition of knowledge and skills by individuals 
As economies continue to evolve, the nature of skills demanded will change too. For example, technical skills remain important while there is also an increased demand for cognitive skills. Individuals may gain or lose jobs due to this factor.
In Singapore, the government has implemented SkillsFuture which aims to provide Singaporeans with opportunities to develop their fullest potential and acquire skills for a more advanced economy. 

Sample question: Explain how globalization can cause economic growth and economic downturn in a country?

Point: A positive impact of globalisation on countries is economic growth. 
Elaboration & Example: Due to globalisation, countries can experience economic growth. For instance, countries can attract foreign direct investments. In Singapore for instance, the Economic Development Board is in charge of attracting investments and pitching Singapore as a global business hub that is ideal for MNCs to invest in the country. Due to this, in 2012, Singapore generated $747.7 billion in investments alone. 
Explanation & Link: With such investments in the country, the revenue generated by the country’s economy will increase, leading to growth for the country overall.
 
Point: A negative impact of globalisation on countries is economic downturn. Elaboration & Example: Because economies around the world are closely-linked in a globalised world, the decline of a major player can impact others negatively. For instance, when the USA was hit by the economic recession in 2008, it affected the whole world and there was then a global economic recession. Major economies that were dependent or reliant on the American economy, its companies and trading activities were hence adversely affected. Singapore was also affected where jobs were lost and the economy did not grow as well as it used to. 
Explanation & Link: Therefore, globalisation can cause worldwide economic downturn when a major economy declines since many economic activities are interconnected and interdependent across the globe.


Sample question: Explain the positive and negative economic impact of globalisation on SMEs.   
Point: The positive economic impact of globalisation on SMEs is that it allows SMEs to gain access to lower labour costs and cheaper resources.
Elaboration & Example: SMEs are smaller scale companies with annual sales turnover of not more than $100 million or total number of workers not exceeding 200. Globalisation has allowed SMEs to gain access to lower labour costs and cheaper resources such as land and raw materials. Moreover, it has enabled SMEs to play a complementary role to the MNCs. For example, MMI Holdings, an SME, is the supplier of hard drive disks for US based Seagate Technology. 
Explanation & Link: Globalisation has ultimately motivated SMEs to leverage upon the opportunities provided and find ways to constantly innovate their products and services to stay relevant. By taking advantage of opportunities provided by MNCs, they would be able to expand their own market reach by playing this complimentary role to MNCs. This will help SMEs stay relevant and remain in business even with globalisation.
Point: The negative economic impact of globalisation on SMEs is that it face challenges posed by larger companies such as MNCs. 
Elaboration & Example: Globalisation has resulted in the increase in the spread of MNCs, bigger local companies and SMEs. SMEs find it difficult to compete with large firms because they face several challenges in terms of shortage of expertise and labour, small domestic markets and insufficient profits. This hinders their ability to sustain their operations and innovate to remain relevant. 
Explanation & Link: When SMEs are unable to compete with the larger local companies, they will be forced to withdraw from the market and ultimately cease their operations. This will result in the monopolisation/domination of large companies in the economy while the SMEs will be rendered irrelevant.

Sample question: Explain the positive and negative economic impact of globalisation on individuals.   

Point: Globalisation has positively impacted individuals by giving them more job options.
Elaboration & Example: Individuals are now able to look for jobs beyond Singapore. For example, one can get hired to be an air traffic controller in Dubai, as long as he/she has the relevant skills. 
Explanation & Link: Thanks to globalisation, individuals have a larger job market that they can tap on, allowing them to get higher salaries than what they may normally get in their home countries. This would in turn allow them to have a higher standard of living. 

Point: Globalisation has increased mobility of workers and jobs but some workers may be adversely affected by increased competition, leading to a loss of income for them. Elaboration & Example: An example would be the Japanese fashion chain, Uniqlo, which had its base in China. However, as China’s manufacturing and labour costs rose, it was no longer profitable for the company to base its product operations in China. In 2013, Uniqlo moved out of China into Vietnam where labour costs were half of China. Explanation & Link: Therefore when workers lose their jobs, it may be difficult for some of these lowly skilled workers to find alternative employment. Also, skilled workers today can be easily replaced by skilled individuals from other countries who are willing to work for much lower wages. With a loss in income for these individuals, it lowers their standard of living.

Sample question: Explain the positive impact of globalisation on individuals and companies.

Point: Globalisation has positively impacted individuals by giving them more job options. 
Elaboration & Example: Individuals are now able to look for jobs beyond Singapore. For example, one can get hired to be an air traffic controller in Dubai, as long as he/she has the relevant skills. 
Explanation & Link: Thanks to globalisation, individuals have a larger job market that they can tap on, allowing them to get higher salaries than what they may normally get in their home countries.

Point: Globalisation has positively impacted companies by ensuring that they have a bigger market share. 
Elaboration & Example: Companies are now able to sell to many other countries. For example, companies like BreadTalk can now expand to other Asian countries, while Old Chang Kee has even set up a shop in London. 
Explanation & Link: Thanks to globalisation, companies may see higher demand than before as the pool of customers has increased dramatically. With higher demand, they can have higher profits as they sell more. 

