As much as I would like to go full on ultra-instinct military and tech junkie having conversations and notes about what military and technological advancements and actions were taken at the time, it is not something that is really covered in our syllabus. (sad, IK)

Multiple countries in Europe, the most powerful continent such as Britan, France, Germany, Russia (Partly in asia but wtf right?), Austria Hungary and Serbia.
There were also multiple countries outside europe trying to establish itself as a world power, some of which includes Japan.
At the time, USA adopted isolationism in a form where they do not interfere with the political situation outside of USA, unless there is direct involvement.

At this point in time, there were many countries holding onto territories around the world, Germany held onto islands in asia, africa, europe and oceania.
These territories were later taken away by Japan, Russia and other enemy countries in the war. The exception here is mostly Russia, since it broke into a civil war and had multiple revolutions in the middle of participating in the world war.

Germany mainly got involved in the first world war due to reasons that could have been mitigated.

The assasination of a austrio-hungarian archduke, Franz Ferdinand, led to public and national outcry against the Serbian Assasin.
This serbian assasin was Gavrilo Princip, the assasination attempt was a form of retaliation against austrian rule and oppression against the serbs (slavs), muslims and minority races.

This serbian assasin was also linked to a state-backed (or at least there were some ties to the serbian military) organisation (Black hand)
This led to outrage against Serbia, after they linked the black hand to the state (Again, you must remember that austria-hugngary was bullying some of the smaller states which led to the assasination.)

This involved germany as austria-hungary and germany had very close ties, mainly due to similar heritage, and having been part of the roman empire, or what hitler considered the first reich (ironically the british are of german origin so oops, anglo-saxon moment).
Germany in world war 1 assisted and aided austria-hungary who wanted revenge having one of their most important political figures having been killed.

This led to them both declaring war on serbia. (Which had an alliance with russia, which russia had a alliance with the french)
Diplomacy is never easy to understand, so through many strings of alliances, Germany found itself fighting many of the major powers of the time.

It is also worth noting tha the franco-prussian-german wars of 1870 and the balkan wars had created much tension in europe, which increased armament rapidly.
This in turn, caused an arms race, which, then once again cause increase in armament and policies contributing to building military might.
This in turn (yes), brought about anti-disarmament sentiments and throught rising tensions that continued, caused increase in arms and military building efforts.
No one (When I say this, I intend to convey that the effort was not significant enough to turn the tide, although yes there were efforts) wanted to compromise for the greater good, leading to trigger happy threats were countries could very easily start wars.

Enemies included: Japan, britan, france, USA, russia, italy, romania, commonwealth nations (limited)
Germany lost and eventually had a new leader injected using democracy. Similar to what you might see in constitutional republics at the time, such as USA. (more here: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Friedrich_Ebert)

The new republic that was establised was called the weimar republic, brought in by the allied powers who won the war.
The establishment of a democracy in germany in the early 1900s is also not a heavily covered topic within our syllabus, so kinda sad lmao. But it will be beneficial to know what went down.

Fun fact, the first reich refers to the holy roman empire, the second reich refers to the kaizer's rule and the third reich refers to the Nazi establishment. It may not seem related right now but it will be helpful to know if you can pull these guys in because Hitler makes a lot of referrences to the first and second reichs. (kinda like how an anime fan might do it.)
